---
title: My "First" (Tech) Conference!
description: My experience at JSCraftCamp 2024 in Munich, Germany.
author: Patrick Piedad
date: 2024-06-11
tags:
image: /images/jscc24.png
imageAlt: logo of JSCraftCamp with the silhouette of the conference location
---

I spent this past weekend attending my "first" tech conference, JSCraftCamp (JSCC) 2024.

I say "first" because I tech-nically attended one before but didn't get much out of it because of the format of the event. Actually, the format of JSCC is what made it such a great experience.

JSCC is as "BarCamp / OpenSpace / Unconference" style event where much of the agenda is participant driven. Attendees arrive, create the schedule, and lead their sessions with whoever is interested in coming. You were encouraged to move between presentations if you weren't getting anything out of the current one you were attending, which was a fantastic tenet to implement. With the right people, this style makes the event an incredible, community-led experience that is a stark contrast to your normal pre-selected lecture conference.

The conference was two days long with the option to attend only one of the days if needed. To register, you had to initiate a pull-request (terrifying if you're a beginner) in order to add yourself to the attendees list. I hadn't seen this sign-up method before and think it's a unique way to track attendees with a little bit of flare. It also served as a filter for potential participants, making it harder for people that aren't passionate about tech from taking a slot. As the list grew, you could see all the attendees publicly with their linked socials, helping for networking before, during, and after.

JSCC was supported by a large number of local sponsors, allowing for the event to be free for all attendees. Volunteers were recruited to help with the day-to-day requirements, and the event flowed extremely well. If you hadn't yet experienced the "tech world amenities" you would be pleasantly surprised by the offerings.

So, what was a new developer like me doing at this event?

<b> 1. Exploring old and new JavaScript concepts with seasoned developers. </b>
<br>
<br>
I spent a lot of time at JSCC jumping between different sessions, talking through standard topics such as React and Vue framework updates as well as technologies that I wasn't yet familiar with, like Deno, Astro CMS, and penetration testing.

Of course, I could always do this type of exploring on my own and with my Discord community. However, there was something great about exploring these topics in person with other developers that had an in-depth understanding AND were happy to answer my beginner level questions.

Another great part of this conference was the fact that people of all levels were welcome and encouraged to participate. I originally thought that I'd be dead weight in these sessions, since my knowledge was lower in comparison. However, I never felt that way. I participated in the sessions, was friendly and open to new perspectives, and I truly think that was all that was needed to create the environment that the organizers wanted. Heck, I was even surprised by other seasoned developers having basic questions on topics that they just didn't deal with in their day jobs. Everyone was learning something.

<b> 2. Networking </b>
<br>
<br>
Bleh, I know. The networking word can be an uncomfortable topic. A lot of the time, it feels transactional when you're cold messaging people on LinkedIn, hoping to make a genuine connection on the internet, when clearly you found them just because they work at your target company and have a shared experience.

<i> This is exactly why the conference was such a great place to network. </i>

All the participants were there to learn about JavaScript (and CRAFT), which is the idea that brought us all together. We were all passionate about †he technology, regardless of our familiarity or expertise with it. There were natural breaks in the day where you could have easy talks with each other and build the genuine connection that can be so elusive online.

A few people and I naturally drifted together because of our initial talks at the beginning of the conference. It felt very fulfilling when we all had the "default" behavior of grouping up when lunch and dinner time came around, asking about what we all learned throughout the day. We shared our experiences both from the conference, but also life in general. They were real, genuine connections.

Of course, we did the LinkedIn shuffle by the end of the conference, but it felt much more natural. Now, I have a group of people that I can do normal life things with, that HAPPEN to be developers. If that ends up helping with jobs further down the line, great. If not, I'm very happy to have expanded my social circle.

<b> 3. Demystifying the software developer </b>
<br>
<br>
Ahh, yes. The software developer.

As a new developer, and a self-taught one at that, it's easy to have a mystified view of the software developer in general. It's easy to develop imposter syndrome (which is probably unavoidable to a degree) as we imagine that all OTHER developers have something figured out that we don't.

This is exactly why I appreciated attending the conference. I got to MEET those mystical software developers. I got to ask questions and learn about how they viewed their jobs and experience. I got to see the confidence and passion that radiated from some developers, coupled with their own acceptance of not knowing it all.

Meeting other developers that were working in the tech industry, in the area that I wanted to work, was a great way to take them off the pedestal and accept that we're all working professionals that are figuring it out as we go. I don't think my imposter syndrome is particularly strong right now, as I'm not professionally working in the space yet, but I think this early exposure to other developers will make it easier to quell those thoughts later.

<b> 4. Gathering puzzle pieces </b>
<br>
<br>
The commander of my unit talks a lot about his philosophy of why he has specific groups of people doing specific tasks. He says that the experiences we go through are all puzzle pieces that may not assemble now but will pay dividends when they assemble later. These puzzle pieces can even assemble as one picture in a few years, then assemble into an even larger picture ten years from now.

That's a big part of what I was trying to accomplish at JSCC. I was gathering puzzle pieces that may not mean much now, un-assembled without context, but will build themselves into a bigger picture that will drive my motivation and passion for what I do in the future. These puzzle pieces are things like learning about new frameworks, hearing the perspective of another new developer, and talking about someone's experience in the automotive industry.

I was gathering puzzle pieces so that at the end of the year when I am searching for what job will bring me joy, those puzzle pieces are working to create the next "larger picture."

<b> Conclusion </b>
<br>
<br>
I don't think there's a wrong time to start going to meetups and conferences. The more you know about the conference topics, the better off you will be. However, don't let your perceived lack of knowledge stop you from experiencing all the other benefits from meeting fellow developers.

I believe, as long as you bring an enthusiastic and passionate attitude, you will always be a net gain to the event.

So, get after it!

Cheers,
<br>
Pat
