---
title: My "First" (Tech) Conference!
description: My experience at JSCraftCamp 2024 in Munich, Germany.
author: Patrick Piedad
date: 2024-06-10
tags:
image: /images/jscc24.png
imageAlt: logo of JSCraftCamp with the silhouette of the conference location
---

I spent this past weekend attending my "first" tech conference, JSCraftCamp 2024 (JSCC)

I say "first" because I tech-nically (haha) attended one before but didn't get much out of it because of the format of the event. Actually, the format of JSCC is what made it such a great experience.

JSCC is as "BarCamp / OpenSpace / Unconference" style event where the majority of the agenda is participant driven. Attendees arrive, create the schedule, and lead their discussion groups with whoever is interested in coming. You were encouraged to move between presentations if you weren't getting anything out of the current one you were attending, which was a fantastic tenet to introduce. With the right people, this style makes the event an incredible, community-led experience that is a stark contrast to your normal pre-selected lecture conference.

The conference was two days long with the option to attend only one of the days if needed. In order to register, you had to initiate a pull-request (terrifying if you're a beginner) in order to add yourself to the attendees list. I hadn't seen this sign-up method before and think its a really unique way to track attendees with a little bit of flare. It also served as a filter for potential participants, making it harder for people that aren't passionate about tech from taking a slot. As the list grew, you could see all of the attendees publicly with their linked socials, helping for networking before, during, and after.

JSCC was supported by a large amount of local sponsors, allowing for the event to be free for all attendees. Volunteers were recruited to help out with the day-to-day requirements, and the event flowed extremely well. If you hadn't yet experienced the "tech world amenities" you would be pleasantly surprised by the offerings.

So, what was a new developer like myself doing at this event?

1. Learning old and new JavaScript concepts with seasoned developers
   I spent a lot of time at JSCC jumping between different sessions, talking through more standard topics such as React and Vue framework updates

2. Networking

3. Demystifying the software developer

4. Gathering puzzle pieces

views of the conference from a new developer
advantages of going to a barcamp unconference style conference
demystifying other software developers, senior developers, the working environment, people, culture
learning the unique software developer culture
not understanding everything but getting the puzzle pieces together

Cheers,
<br>
Pat

<br><br>

<center>
<i>Immersion</i>
</center>
<br><br>

ul>

<li> Podcasts, such as CodeNewbie, Scrimba, FreeCodeCamp, The Changelog, Changelog News, Syntax, and .NET Rocks!</li>
<br>
<li> Attending tech conferences in your local area. I try to extend my radius as far as possible to maximize the exposure.</li>
<br>
<li> Joining a Discord or Slack community where you can have a constant presence with other like-minded people. I'm a part of the 100Devs community, and I couldn't recommend it more to anyone on the software development journey.</li>
<br>
<li> LinkedIn networking can also provide a great way to talking to people already in the industry. While this can be a little more daunting than the other options, it is absolutely critical in building your network and learning the finer details of companies you're interested in. </li>
</ul>
